---
layout: post
title:  "How I Edit This Site"
date:   2019-08-09 00:02:44 -0400
categories: jekyll update
---

When I was looking for a new project for a website, there were 3 things 

I had to be able to update it from anywhere, not in front of a computer
It had to be simple, and not get in my way
It had to be 

One of the things I thought would be cool would be if I could edit and manage this site completely from my iPad (or any other iOS device).  Why? Well, Why not.

I love the idea of being able to just grab my iPad Pro or iPhone and being able to make some notes whilst only having to worry about writing and not messing around with anything else.  Right now, I am using a 10.5 inch iPad Pro paired with an Apple Wireless Keyboard.  I do commute a few hours a day to work and always try to travel as light as I can so I was really looking for something I could at any given time, even on my phone. 

Jekyll was a perfect fit for me.  I didn't want to manage Wordpress, Google Blog was terrible and don't get me started with AEM.  I am not interested in anything flashy, but if and when I get bored with how it looks. It's super easy to theme without worrying too much about existing content.  One of the funny things was when I had discovered Jekyll and read their philosophy, it pretty much summed up what I was looking for

Jekyll does what you tell it to do -- no more, no less. It doesn't try to outsmart users by making bold assumptions, nor does it burden them with needless complexity and configuration. Put simply, Jekyll gets out of your way and allows you to concentrate on what truly matters: your content.

I spent a little bit of time looking for a Git Client for iOS and I ended up going with Working Copy. I can only say that a handful of commits using it, but so far I am impressed.  I have been using the Standard version and haven't run into too many blockers without needing to upgrade.  Needless to say, I will definitely be supporting the Developers on this as it's probably been the best Git client I have tried yet.

Getting up and running with Working Copy was quite easy. You can find details on their site, but it's basically similar to configuring any Git client with GitHub.  Once I had my GitHub account in, it was just a matter of cloning the repository and start working. Everything worked seamlessly. If you are reading this, you probably can figure out  what to do - so I'll save you from the details.

This is really my first time doing any type of "coding" on anything other than a real computer.  And when I say coding, editing a Jekyll site is really just a bunch of Markdown and a little bit of Ruby. Other than that, I was able to make some changes to a few old Perl and Python scripts that I hadn't touched in a while and that was a pleasure. I can really say that for on the go, the experience is quite amazing.   

Other than the odd iMessage popping up every once in a while, I notice that there are far less distractions than working on any laptop or desktop.  Mind you, iOS does not have official mouse support, so precision selection of text is one of my big pain points. iOS 13 reportedly adds some type of mouse support, but we'll see how that looks.

I wont claim to be an expert in Jekyll, but from my time using it, I think hosting it in GitHub Pages is a no brainer and I highly recommend that you consider looking into it if you would like to get started with Jekyll. Pair that with a mobile and lightweight method to update your content, and you have an excellent combo.

So what will you find here? Anything goes. Really, it's just a place for me to geek out and have fun doing it. 

Take care

